Hi friends
In this video we're going to learn about the C
pre processor
So the pre-processor is actually a text processing tool or we can call it
a text substitution tool. All
Processing directives will begin with a # symbol. It has the
name because, it pre processes the programme before it is
actually compiled
The C pre-processor is used automatically by the C
compiler to transform the programme before compilation
So it performs a series of textual transformations on its
input and after that it will return the pure C code
to the compiler
Then it is compiled by the compiler
Now let us see some common pre-processor
tasks. that is what are the things that are
actually done in this pre processing stage
One task is file inclusion
So if this programme is the input to the pre
processor the first line is #include stdio.h
and we can have file inclusion in two
ways
If you have this variant #include file in angle
braces
It is used for system header files and it
searches for a file named "file" in a standard list
of system directories
And if you have this variant #include file  without
any angle braces it is used for own header files
Inclusion
This command would look for the file in the current
directory where the source file is stored as well as the
standard list of system directories
So if the file name is specified within angle braces
it is pre-defined and if it is not
then it is user defined and the pre processor finds
the file and replaces the #include stdio.h
statement with this actual file. now another task of
pre processor is macro expansion
Here we have #define SIZE 5 so the pre
processor will replace all occurrences of SIZE by 5.
and another task is it will remove the comments from
the programme
All C comments are replaced with a single space and
finally the pre processed pure C code will be sent to
the compiler for the actual compilation
So these are some of the common pre processor tasks
and we will be discussing more about pre processor in the coming lessons. So that's all and thank you for watching this video.